---
layout: post
title:      "The Purpose of ${Steve}'s Life"
date:       2019-03-15 18:30:53 -0400
permalink:  the_purpose_of_steve_s_life
---


> To see the world, things dangerous to come to, to see behind walls, draw closer, to find each other, and to feel. That is the purpose of life

So there's this idea that I've been thinking about lately, it's about variables. In code a variable is a prety basic concept. It's something you create with the intention to change and shape it as your program runs, idealy becoming something better on the other end of the program's execution. You name the container it lives in, hopefully something that describes it, or it's purpose. There can be many different variables with many different purposes. Some change a little, some a lot. And if it never changes, then it's not really a variable, it's a constant. Constant's have their place too in a program. They're dependable, never changing, a home base of a value that a program can lean on as it changes a variable into whatever is next. I think when I started my career, i strived to be a constant, but somewhere along the way, I learned to become a variable. 

My dad was always into electronics, in the national guard in the 70s he was a radio tech, and when he came back, he worked in this mom and pop electronics shop in Berkeley, CA. A place where all the UC Berkelely students and faculty would go when they needed some part, and mostly when they needed to talk something through. In the 80s, my parents didn't pay for child care, they just sat me at the counter at Al Lasher's Electroics and let me type away at the boxy green on black computer system they used for inventory management. I was born in 84, and I have no idea when I started at my perch or honestly, how long I was there for, but plenty of people, upon learning of the Al Lashers kid, totally remember me, an old coworker of mine, lost his mind when we figured out the connection. He, a college engineer in training, me a 5 year old who could solder electronics and could repeat the standardized wire coloring guide, even though I had no idea what it meant then, or even now. But I would sit there and plunk away at the computer and talk with anyone who would wonder in. And man did people wonder in. 

There was a nice man with a car completely covered in grass who was building a car that would run on only bateries, I didn't understand why that was a big deal till quite a bit later. There were a group of people who wrote stories for some tv show about space ships that wandered around the galaxy in the future, but they were more interested in the stories that could tell you how great a united mankind could be then in whatever the alien of the week was. But mostly it was engineers, some officially college trained, many hobbiests with garages and big ideas, or small ideas. And I would pass the time, make voice modulators, or messing with the alarm panels and making loud noises, but always coming back to that computer at the desk and typing on it, and talking to people about ideas. Al Lashers was a place of ideas, taking a bunch of parts and building an idea from them. Filling something with electricity and watching it become more than the sum of it's parts. I grew up idolizing ideas, and building them. I reached the peak when my dad finally gave me my very own pocket protector and a couple of pens. I was so proud of it, and I would ask everyone for something to fill it with. 

But children are nothing if not rebels, and so I decided I wanted to do something diferent then my dad and decided to become a journalist when I was in high school. But 9/11 happened. I watched from the west coast, horrified and powerless. But worse I realized our leaders and government were just humans. There is no omnipotent government agency protecting everyone with awesome unfailable agents. Just humans. So I went to college and got a criminal justice degree. I needed to serve and protect and do what I could. I was a police department student aide and I was working under the evidence tech and they had just come out with this phone that had a camera on it. And of course some bad guys had taken pictures of them beating somebody up. Now, I ahem, have a bit of a history of enjoying bypassing rules. And the rules that Verizon had on it's phones stopped people from putting their own ringtones on the phones. So, I bypassed them. Funy thing about that is, I also learned how to root through memory and retrieve photos and other information from a phone. So I did something that no crime lab in California had done at the time, and, well, they ended up creating a position just for me. 

I had found my calling, helping the police and firefighters through technology! And data analysis! And, erm, creative data retrieval methods. And also the more mundane, like keeping the servers running, and building out the infrustructure for police car computers and other tech. I was a constant in life, so that the program could run and help those that protected and served. But life isn't constant and it's not binary. There is no such thing as only black and white or only true or false, or only good or bad in the world I was growing up through my 20s in. We were one of the first in the nation to fully do police body cams. Pretty much everyone had an issue with them. The public didn't like being spied on, and the officers didn't like big brother recording their every move. Everybody sued and protested. But then they worked, and things changed, and I was proud of it.

My wife has always been a variable and she's always known I'm one too, but it took her a while to help me see it. She's the biggest part of me and my changes, her expressions subtly changed my methods. But the moment I knew that I was truely a variable was when I watched this movie called The Secret Life of Walter Mitty. It's a story of travel and new experiences and how they change who you are.  And it spoke to how I felt. So I took advantage of an educational leave of absense offered by my department, traveled Europe with only a backpack and my wife for 9 months, and then traveled the US and Canada in an '88 Winnebego for the last 3 months. 

I came back refreshed and ready to help out again. But too many of my properties had changed. And while I was proud of the work I had done, it wasn't who I was anymore. And so I left. That was a few months ago, I know I need to build great things to help people. I know I can do it, I just need the tools. I have so many ideas, and I know so many more people with so many more great ideas. But no one has the tools to build them just yet. But, I think I may have them now. Or at least the first few to get started, thanks to FlatIron. I don't know exactly what is next for me, I know the basic keys that make me who I am, but I'm also looking to change and grow, to find new methods and expressions. Because I believe that is my nature, variable. 

That movie that inspired me had a quote that I take with me everywhere I go. It's litterally branded into my wallet. And some day, when the wallet fades, I will find a more permanent home for it. But, I'll leave it here one more time, just in case someone reads this and could use it. 

> To see the world, things dangerous to come to, to see behind walls, draw closer, to find each other, and to feel. That is the purpose of life
